In the previous video, we already learn how
to download and install Cisco Packet Tracer.
Now in this video, we are going to build the most
simple computer network using cisco packet tracer,
which is connecting two computers .
Here in the left buttom, we can go to
end device, and here we can see a PC
I think this is to small, to zoom everything in
packet tracer, we can go to cisco packet tracer
and then preferences.
If you use windows,
this preference menu will be under file.
But if you use mac, the preference is
under cisco packet tracer like this.
Go to preference, in the font tab, we can
change this font size, let’s change this to 14.
Apply, and here we are, we can see
that everything is zoom in now.
Let’s back to end devices, and
add two PC to the workspace.
Here we have PC 0 and PC 1. Now let’s
connecting this two PC using UTP Cable.
Okay now PC 0 and PC 1 is connected using UTP cable.
As I explain in the previous video,
each computer in the computer network
will need an IP Address to
communicate each others.
So now we need to configure the IP Address on PC 0
and PC 1. The IP Address of PC 0 will be 192.168.1.1
and the IP Address of PC 1 will be 192.168.1.2
Now let’s configure the IP Address on PC 0
first. Go to desktop and then IP Configuration.
Here we can put the IP Address, 192.168.1.1.
For subnetmask, just leave it default like this.
We will talk more about subnetmask in
the next video.
Now let’s move to PC 1.
Go to desktop, IP configuration. The IP
Address is 192.168.1.2,
and again, just leave the subnetmask as default.
Okay now PC 0 and PC 1 already have an IP Address.
To test the connection between these two PC, we can do ping.
Here in the desktop section, we can see command prompt.
I think this is to small, let’s go to
cisco packet tracer and preference again.
Here in the font section,
change the CLI font size to 14.
Let’s back to the PC,
Okay here the font is little bit
bigger, but I think this is not enough,
let’s back to the preference
again and change the size to 18.
Now let’s back to the PC, Okay
this is much butter right?
Now let’s test connection between PC 0 and PC 1.
just type ping and then the IP Address of PC that we
want to ping. In this case, we do ping from PC 1,
so we want to ping to PC 0. Let’s put the IP
Address of PC 0 here, 192.168.1.1, and enter.
Great! Our ping is success, here
we can see reply from 192.168.1.1,
which is the IP Address of PC 0. This is mean
that the connection between this two PC is OK!
Besides ping, we can use another way to test
connection between two PC in packet tracer.
We can send a packet. So let’s
click here, and then click on PC 1
and then PC 0, this is mean that we send a
packet from PC 1 to PC 0. And here we can see
that this is successful, this is mean that
PC 1 is successfully send the packet to PC 0.
Okay so now we have two way to test the connection
between two computer in the Cisco Packet Tracer.
The first one is using command prompt,
and the second one is using packet.
But in the real devices, we don’t have
packet features, so we just have one way
to test connection between two PC in real
devices, which is ping from command prompt.
Okay I think enough for this video,
congratulation! Now you are able to
build your own computer network!
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.